PRACTICE TEST 05
SECTION A .LISTENING
Part 1. You will hear an interview with someone who runs a company called The Perfume Shop, which sells perfume in a group of shops in the UK. For questions 1 - 5, choose the best answer A, B, or C.
1. Which of these statements summarizes Jo's sales philosophy?
A. People care about what they buy.
B. Names don't sell products.
C. People are more important than products.
2. Jo says that one of the Fish principles concerns
A. thinking of enjoyment activities for staff.
B. deciding to be enthusiastic about your job.
C. persuading customers to buy.
3. Which of the following is true about perfume, according to Jo?
A. It has special connections for some people.
B. People often aren't given the right advice about it.
C. Many people find it hard to decide which one they like best.
4. What problem did the girl in the shopping centre have?
A. She hadn't been able to find the perfume she wanted.
B. She had used all of a certain perfume that she had.
C. She thought she wouldn't be able to buy a certain perfume.
5. Jo says that the man who came into one of The Perfume Shop's stores
A. became a regular customer.
B. wanted a perfume that was no longer available.
C. was amazed when she sent him a bottle of her own perfume.
Part 2: You will listen to an interview. For questions 6 - 10, decide whether the statements are True (T) or False (F). You will have some time to look at the questions before starting. 
6. Jenny's guest works for an e-mail company.	                                     F
7. David suggests not writing your e-mail address on a piece of paper.         F
8. David says it's better not to mix work and personal e-mail accounts.       T
9. Jenny claims not everyone can simply open a new e-mail account.         T
10. David advises people not to write e-mails in blue.                                  F
Part 3: For questions 11-15, listen to an interview with a singer called Nick Parker who plays in a band called Krispy with his sister Mel and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on the answer sheet to indicate the information which fits best according to what you hear. You will hear the recording twice. 
11. When Nick and Mel were younger,
        A   they studied music at school.	              		 B   their father took them to live concerts.
        C   their mother encouraged them to play music.    	D   they quarrelled with each other a lot. 
12. The band Krispy was started after
        A   Nick began studying at music school                B   two other musicians heard Nick and Mel playing.
        C   Nick and Mel advertised for the band members. 	D   they shared the same music style. 
13. In the band's first year together,
        A   concert audiences liked their music.			 B   they signed a recording contract.
        C   their national tour was very successful		 D   they practised singing together. 
14. What does Nick say about life in the band today?
        A   The other members look after him and Mel.		B   He's pleased to have the chance to travel.
        C   There's no opportunity for them to relax together.	D   They have no days off. 
15. What disappointment has the band had?
        A   They haven't yet had a number one single.		B   Their first album sold under a million copies.
        C   A health problem delayed their album recording.	D   The first singles didn't succeed. 
SECTION B. LEXICO - GRAMMAR
16. ____ is that a chicken stands up to lay its eggs.
A. Many people don't realize			C. What many people don't realize
B. It is that many people don't realize		D. Because many people don' realize
17. I have never been windsurfing, but I'd love to have________ at it.
A. a trial 		B. a look 			C. a taste 		D. a go
18. Those campers are really ________. They have no idea how to set up a tent.		
A. black		B. blue			C. white		D. green
19. It took me 10 years to _________ enough money to travel around the country.
A. set out		 B. put away			C. put by		D. save aside
20. You gave me a lift yesterday; otherwise I	late for school.
A. would be	B. wouldn't be	C. would have been  D. wouldn't have been
21. Under the table_ 	_ that has lived with him for 20 years.
B. his dog sits	B. does his dog sit	C. sit his dog	D. sits his dog
22. They say he inherited his money from a ______ relative he had never met.
A. faraway	B. remote	C. distant	           D. far
23.Ben's so unlucky in love. Why does he ______  the type of woman who brings trouble? 
A. catch on		           B. fall for		 C. put before		            D. set out 
24. "Why didn't you buy the fish from the market? Then you _____ a lot of money." Tom said to Jane.
A. saved	   B. could save	                        C. did save                          D. could have saved	
25. The people who______ the survey said that they had examined over 1,000 accidents.
	A. gave			B. proceed			C. set			D. conducted
26 ______ for their strong fiber include flax and hemp.
     A. Plants are grown					B. Plants grown      			
     C. Plants that grow	         				D. To grow plants
27. It's one of the worst books I've ever read. Its only redeeming ___________ is that it's quite short.
     A. aspect	            B. element		C. feature		D. factor
28.Luckily, the teacher ______ her wits about her and was able to evacuate all of her students from the burning building.
	A. played	B. kept	C. broke	D. drew
29. You can't ______ your dreams if you continue failing your tests.
	A. carry	B. recognize	C. harbour	D. realize
30. Since a large percentage of her students failed the exam, the teacher decided to give them a second bite at 		by allowing them to take the test again.
A.	the apple	B. the pie	C. the peach	D. the cherry
31. The bed had been made, fresh towels were in the bathroom and everything was 	 .
	A. rant and rave	B. down and out	C. spick and span	D. fair and square
32. If we all ______ a green lifestyle, we will help conserve our natural resources.
	A. adopt	B. adapt	C. attract	D. attribute
Read the passage and choose the word that  best fits each gap. 
    Everyone has got two personalities - the one that is shown to the world and the other that is (33)............... and real. You don't show your secret personality when you are (34)..............., because you can control yourself. But when you are asleep, your feeling position (35)...............the real you. In a normal night of course, people often change their position. The important position is the one you go to sleep in.
    If you go to sleep on your back, you are a very (36)...............person. You usually believe people and you accept new things or new ideas easily. You don't like to make people sad, so you never express your real feeling. You are quite shy.
    If you sleep on your stomach, you are a rather secretive person. You worry a lot and you always easily become sad. You usually live for today not tomorrow. This means that you  enjoy .having a good time.
    If you sleep curled up, you are probably a very (37)...............person. You have a low opinion of yourself. You are shy and don't like meeting people. You prefer. (38)............... on your own. You are easily hurt.
33.A.importantB.seriousC.secretD.particular34.A.awakeB.activeC.happyD.honest35.A.makesB.understandC.changesD.shows36.A.independentB.openC.talkativeD.generous37.A.strongB.healthyC.nervousD.careful38.A.beB.to beingC.beingD.to beChoose the word that is closest in meaning to the underlined part in each of the following questions.
39. Crime frequently increases during periods of social upheaval
A. ruin		            B. unrest	                       C. havoc		            D. trends
40. Do your parents hold with your smoking?
A. like                          B. object to                              C. approve of                         D. dislike
Choose the word that is opposite in meaning to the underlined part in each of the following questions.
41.He was too wet behind the ears to be in charge of such a difficult task.
A. full of sincerity       B. lack of responsibility       C. without money           D. full of experience
42.The profits have dwindled over the past year.
A. stabilized                 B. fluctuated                            C. increased                     D. decreased
SECTION C: READING
PART 1. Read the following passage and choose the best answer from A, B, C or D to indicate the correct word/ phrase for each of the blanks. Write your answers in the boxes provided.
THE TRUE PRICE OF ORGANIC FARMING
Organic farming is a system of agricultural production that doesn't make use of genetically modified seeds and that (43)______ artificial pesticides and fertilisers with organic ones. But why is there almost always a (44)______ difference between the cost of organically produced food and that of non-organic alternatives?
One reason organic produce is sold at considerably higher prices (which in some cases can be 100% higher) relates to labour costs, which are (45)______ greater for the organic farmer. A downside of not using chemicals is that food production is slower and crop failure more common. The organic farmer must therefore spend more time preparing the land and put a more (46)______ effort into tending to crops as well as controlling pests weeds - sometimes by hand. What is more, as the (47)______ of livestock is prioritised in organic farming, feeding animals with better-quality food, as well as ensuring their living conditions are (48)______ keeps prices high. So, all things considered, organic food may actually be good value (49)______money, which is probably why consumers are anything but discouraged from purchasing what they perceive to be much healthier, tastier food.
Since concerns over the effects of conventional farming on both human health and the environment first (50)______, the number of people opting to (51)______ out conventionally produced food from their diet has been on the rise. In fact, the demand for organic produce is now so high that the supply is unable to meet it, and with organic farming (52)______ no more than 5% of total agricultural production in the UK, this is unlikely to change any time soon.
43. A. detects                       B. outlines                    C. substitutes                         D. imports
44. A. substantial                 B. deep                          C. lengthy                              D. gradual
45. A. exclusively                B. purely                       C. proficiently                       D. undoubtedly
46. A. acute                          B. varied                       C. intense                               D. constant
47. A. neglect                       B. consumption             C. mastery                             D. well-being
48. A. sustainable                 B. optimal                     C. irresistible                         D. wholesome
49. A. for                              B. with                           C. through                             D. to
50. A. strayed                       B. wandered                   C. roamed                              D. surfaced
51. A. slice                            B. cut                             C. carve                                 D. scratch
52. A. accounting for          B. carrying on                C. leaving of                         D. treating to
II. Read the following passage and mark the letter A, B, C, or D on the answer sheet to indicate the correct phrase , clause or sentence to complete each of the numbered blanks from 53 to 57.
Urbanization, the process of increasing urban population and the expansion of urban areas, is a significant global trend. (53)__________. As more and more people migrate to cities in search of opportunities, urban centers are growing at an unprecedented rate.
Urbanization can bring numerous benefits, such as economic growth, cultural exchange, and access to education and healthcare. (54) __________. Cities can serve as hubs of innovation, attracting talented individuals and fostering creativity.
However, rapid urbanization also presents challenges, including overcrowding, pollution, and social inequality. (55) ___________. Inadequate infrastructure, such as transportation and sanitation systems, can strain urban resources.
To address these challenges, sustainable urban planning is essential. (56)__________. By creating green spaces, promoting public transportation, and investing in renewable energy, cities can reduce their environmental impact and improve the quality of life for their residents.
Ultimately, the success of urbanization depends on our ability to balance economic growth with social and environmental sustainability. (57) __________. By adopting sustainable practices and prioritizing the well-being of urban dwellers, we can shape cities that are both vibrant and resilient.
Question 53. 
	A. However, urbanization can also lead to negative consequences.
	B. Many people are moving from rural to urban areas.
	C. Urbanization is a natural process that has been occurring for centuries.
	D. Cities are becoming increasingly diverse.
Question 54. 
	A. Cities can provide a wide range of opportunities for individuals.
	B. Urbanization can lead to social isolation and loneliness.
	C. Urbanization can contribute to climate change.
	D. Cities can be overcrowded and stressful.
Question 55. 
	A. Cities are often centers of culture and innovation.
	B. Urbanization can improve access to education and healthcare.
	C. Urbanization can reduce poverty and inequality.
	D. Urbanization can lead to increased economic inequality.
Question 56. 
	A. Urban planners should prioritize economic growth.
	B. Cities should promote car ownership to improve mobility.
	C. Cities should focus on attracting foreign investment.
	D. Urban planners should consider the environmental and social impacts of development.
Question 57. 
	A. Cities should focus on attracting businesses and industries.
	B. Urbanization is inevitable and should be embraced.
	C. By embracing technology, cities can become more efficient and sustainable.
	D. Cities should prioritize economic growth over environmental sustainability.
Read the following passage about culture shock and mark the letter A, B, C, or D to indicate the correct answer to each of the questions from 58 to 65.
In any web search for the world's famous scientists, Marie Curie always receives a mention. Curie, a Polish and naturalised French physicist and chemist, discovered radiation, helped apply it in the field of X-rays and coined the term radioactivity. She made a huge contribution to science, but was one of the very few women who gained the recognition they deserved.   
	Science was man's world in the nineteenth century. And yet, Mary Anning became an expert in fossils and geology. Coming from a poor family, she collected fossils on the beach and sold them to make a little money. She found fossils of complete marine reptiles that became extinct over 100 million years ago. She gained the respect of scientists, but living in an era when women weren't allowed to vote or attend university, she was not allowed to join the Geological Society of London.   
	A hundred years later, conditions were still difficult for female scientists. Rosalind Franklin, a chemist born in 1920, was part of a team who discovered the molecular structure of DNA. Tragically, she died aged thirty-seven, four years before her fellow scientists, all men, were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962. They made no reference to Franklin in their acceptance speech.   
	In cases where women's achievements were recognised, we still find evidence of discrimination in the way these were reported in the press. When the brilliant chemist Dorothy Hodgkin was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1964 for discovering the molecular structure of penicillin and vitamin B12, the paper headline was Oxford Housewife Wins Nobel. In fact, this housewife was also a professor at Oxford University. Today, the gender gap in the world of science is slowly closing and there are many female scientists inspiring new generations of girls to study scientific subjects. But there are still some ways to go for women to be equally represented in science.   
(Adapted from English Discovery)
Question 58. The word coined in paragraph 1 is closest in meaning to ______.
	A. invented	B. changed	C. illustrated	D. described
Question 59. Which of the following is NOT mentioned about Marie Curie?
	A. Her discovery made a large contribution in the field of X-rays.
	B. She is one of the most famous female scientists in the world.
	C. She wasn't recognised widely despite her contribution.
	D. She was one of the very few women recognised for their efforts.
Question 60. The word them in paragraph 2 refers to ______.
	A. reptiles	B. fossils	C. women	D. scientists
Question 61. Which of the following best paraphrases the underlined sentence in paragraph 3?
	A. They mentioned Franklin briefly in their acceptance speech.
	B. In their acceptance speech, they completely ignored Franklin.
	C. They hardly acknowledged Franklin in their acceptance speech.
	D. Franklin refused to be mentioned in their acceptance speech.
Question 62. The word discrimination in paragraph 4 is OPPOSITE in meaning to ______.
	A. difference	B. willingness	C. bias	D. recognition
Question 63. Which of the following is TRUE according to the passage?
	A. Rosalind Franklin was recognised for her contribution after her death.
	B. Dorothy Hodgkin was not held in high esteem at Oxford University.
	C. Mary Anning couldn't join the Geological Society of London due to poverty.
	D. A struggle for gender equality in the world of science still continues.
Question 64. In which paragraph does the author explore the societal limitations placed on women?
	A. Paragraph 1	B. Paragraph 2	C. Paragraph 3	D. Paragraph 4
Question 65. In which paragraph does the author mention a present concession relationship?
	A. Paragraph 1	B. Paragraph 2	C. Paragraph 3	D. Paragraph 4

Read the following passage about paying kids for chores and mark the letter A, B, C, or D to indicate the correct answer to each of the questions from 66 to 75.
    I could hear noises from the kitchen and I felt very proud. [I] I was having my kitchen cupboards emptied and cleaned out by my 11-year-old son. [II] He looked a little uncomfortable before telling me in a businesslike manner, 'Do you think it's worth five pounds?' [III] I paid him, but grumpily, only after accusing him of employing the same tactics as people who clean your windscreen at traffic lights and then ask for money. [IV] At least it showed enterprise - earning and saving money to buy something he wants. But can enterprise and the getting of money coexist with family values?
    Kate, a single working mum of three older teenagers, says she tried to offer money for chores, but didn't offer enough. Suzanne, a mother of three girls with big age gaps between them, says: 'I have paid my kids for babysitting because I'd have to pay someone else to do this. I wouldn't pay for other jobs because I think they should do them as a contribution to family life. But I don't think that it should just be about cash - give and take in a family is about caring and not money.'
    It's about caring and money. The difficulty is in working out the right balance. Professor Frank Furedi, the author of Paranoid Parenting, says, 'Anything that helps children understand that there is a relationship between effort and outcome is to be welcomed, so paying children for jobs makes sense. Although it is important not to place too much focus on financial incentives.' Sue Palmer, the author of Detoxing Childhood, says, 'In our society, we often see the worth of people according to how much they earn and we are inclined to think that something isn't worth doing unless it's paid.'
    How can this be a good message to pass on to the kids? 'It's important that children learn that money doesn't grow on trees, that you have to earn it,' says Palmer. 'However, there are jobs that everyone should do with the agreement that nobody gets paid for doing them, that everyone shares responsibility.' Karen Sullivan, a parenting expert, says: 'Children should take responsibility for themselves and their belongings, so clearing up toys, games and clothes is a given.' She added that they shouldn't expect to have their room tidied or their bed made for them. But when does all this start? The idea of contributing to the household, not for money, but for helping, should begin early, according to Palmer. 'It does have to start very young, when they love to help, but they are not actually helping but slightly irritating you. It's worth encouraging that.'
(Adapted from Laser)
Question 66. Where in paragraph 1 does the following sentence best fit?
When the job was over, he called me down to see it.
A. [I]	B. [II]	C. [III]	D. [IV]
Question 67. According to paragraph 1, the writer's son _______.
A. was forced to clean the kitchen cupboards by the writer
B. was unwilling to do household chores for money at first
C. refused to negotiate the payment for his work
D. did a chore before discussing payment with her
Question 68. The word "enterprise" in paragraph 1 can be best replaced by _______.
A. experience	B. initiative	C. responsibility	D. inspiration
Question 69. Which of the following best summarises paragraph 2?
A. Kate and Suzanne pay their children for all household chores, believing it teaches responsibility and the value of money.
B. Kate and Suzanne believe chores should be a contribution to family life, so they rarely offer money for household tasks.
C. Kate offers money for chores but not enough, while Suzanne pays for babysitting but expects other tasks to be done freely.
D. Suzanne only pays her children for babysitting, while Kate believes paying for chores is unnecessary in a family setting.
Question 70. The phrase "working out" in paragraph 3 is opposite in meaning to _______.
A. irritating	B. narrowing	C. overlooking	D. tightening
Question 71. Which of the following best paraphrases the underlined sentence in paragraph 3?
'In our society, we often see the worth of people according to how much they earn and we are inclined to think that something isn't worth doing unless it's paid.'
A. Not until people earn enough do we see their worth in society, making unpaid tasks seem unnecessary rather than valuable.
B. The more people earn, the more they are valued in our society, as if unpaid work were not worth doing.
C. Were people not paid, they wouldn't be considered valuable in our society since we judge their worth solely by earnings.
D. If something is unpaid, it isn't seen as valuable because society believes people's worth determines how much they should earn.
Question 72. The word "them" in paragraph 4 refers to _______.
A. children	B. belongings	C. trees	D. jobs
Question 73. Which of the following is NOT true according to the passage?
A. Suzanne thinks that paying kids for household chores is unnecessary as caring is more important than money.
B. Sue Palmer emphasises that children should understand the value of money and the effort required to earn it.
C. Karen Sullivan believes that children have a fundamental responsibility for their own things and spaces.
D. Frank Furedi opines that paying children for tasks can be beneficial as it teaches them the connection between effort and reward.
Question 74. Which of the following can be inferred from the passage?
A. Only by encouraging children to do housework from a young age can it become a habit.
B. Early exposure to housework will foster a sense of duty and teamwork in kids as they start living independently.
C. Karen Sullivan and Sue Palmer share a view on doing household chores from a young age.
D. Overemphasising financial incentives for chores may weaken the value of unpaid family contributions.
Question 75. Which of the following best summarises the passage?
A. Parents debate whether children should be paid for chores, with experts emphasising a balance between financial incentives and outcome while warning against teaching kids that only paid work has value.
B. Parents argue about paying children for chores, with some believing it encourages responsibility, while others think household tasks should be unpaid contributions to family life rather than financial transactions.
C. Some parents pay children for chores to teach financial responsibility, while others believe children should help without money, and experts emphasise starting early and ensuring financial rewards do not undermine family values.
D. Parents and experts discuss whether paying children for chores fosters financial responsibility or damages family values, with some advocating unpaid contributions while others stress the importance of independence.
SECTION D: WRITING
Mark the letter A, B, C or D to indicate the best arrangement of utterances  to make a meaningful exchange  in each of the following questions from 13 to 17.
Question 76
a. What's wrong? Maybe I can help.
b. That's what I'm trying now.
c. Sorry. I have a few adjustments to make.
d. Have you tried reducing the throttle?
e. The engine seems to be getting too much fuel.
f. What's all this commotion?
A. a-e-f-b-d-c                      B. f-e-d-c-a-b                   C.f-c-a-e-d-b                 D. a-e-c-d-b-f
Question 77 - Technology and Human Connection
a. Linh: Exactly. We share updates, not emotions.
b. Quang: Because we communicate constantly but rarely deeply.
c. Linh: Maybe we should talk less online and listen more in person.
d. Quang: That's the challenge - convenience over authenticity.
e. Linh: Human connection needs presence, not just Wi-Fi.
f. Quang: True. Digital closeness often lacks genuine intimacy.
g. Linh: It's ironic how social media makes us more connected yet more isolated.
A. g-b-a-f-c-d-e  B. g-a-b-f-c-d-e  C. g-b-f-a-c-d-e  D. b-g-a-f-c-d-e
Mark the letter A, B, C, or D on your answer sheet to indicate the correct arrangement of the sentences to make a meaningful paragraph/letter in each of the questions from 76 to 80.
Question 78
a. Having eagerly awaited your return, I'm keen to hear all the details about your first venture into a foreign land.
b. Eagerly awaiting your reply. Your loving cousin, Sarah
c. Dearest Maria, I was thrilled to learn from my mother that you've returned home safely after your trip. I hope it was an enjoyable and secure experience.
d. I was concerned about the reported bomb blasts during your stay and sincerely hope that you and everyone there remained safe.
e. Apart from this, I trust everything else went well. Your mother mentioned you'll be home in two weeks, and I've seen your Instagram pictures; I can't wait to meet you and hear your stories.
f. From what my friends have shared, the place is incredibly beautiful, and the people are charming.
g. It must have been both exciting and challenging to explore a new culture so different from ours.
A. c, f, d, g, e, a, b
B. c, d, g, f, a, e, b
C. c, g, d, a, f, e, b
D. f, c, d, g, a, e, b
Question 79
c. In many cultures, generational differences often revolve around variations in musical preferences, career paths, and lifestyles.
a. However, in Asian American families, the adaptation to American culture widens the generation gap.
f. The children of Asian American immigrants naturally embrace American culture at a faster pace, with English becoming their primary language and a quick adoption of American values and traditions.
d. Conversely, many first-generation Asian American parents struggle to adapt, maintaining their native language and adhering to traditional lifestyles.
b. This often leads to a clash in cultural values, as parents uphold their native country's ideals while their Americanized children may diverge in preferences and behaviors.
g. As a result, communication within families can become strained, and misunderstandings frequently arise between parents and their children. (→ câu mới thêm, hợp lý giữa "clash in values" và "consequently... challenges")
e. Consequently, Asian American parents may face challenges in passing on their family's traditional values to their children.
A. c, a, f, d, b, g, e
B. c, f, a, d, b, g, e
C. c, a, d, f, b, g, e
D. c, d, f, a, b, g, e
Question 80
a. On this day, we recognize the crucial role of volunteers and staff who provide humanitarian aid during crises. 
b. This day serves as a reminder of the importance of care and compassion towards those in need. 
c. World Red Cross Day is celebrated annually on May 8 to honor the birthday of Henry Dunant, the founder of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. 
d. Besides, schools and communities come together to conduct awareness programs, blood donation camps, and health workshops. 
e. It encourages young people to volunteer and contribute to their communities, fostering a spirit of unity and resilience. 
f. In some countries, the Red Cross Society operates with a focus on disaster relief, health services, and promoting humanitarian values.
g. Celebrating this day educates us about the significance of humanitarian efforts and inspires us to support the noble cause of the Red Cross
A. c-f-d-a-b-e-g		B. c-a-f-d-b-g-e	C. c-b-d-a-f-e-g		D. c-a-f-d-b-e-g

